Titre: Web structure extraction
Date: 2025-01-27
Organisme: Ideactiv
Lieu: Télétravail


Titre :  Web structure extraction

Description :

a. ideactiv is a young start-up heavily relying on NLP in order to read that data of cultural events on the website of cultural organisations (theatres, show venues, etc.). This allows these organisations to share their events with cultural media and promote them without any manual operation.

ideactiv reads ~15 000 events per 24 hours, on the website of ~10 000
organisations. Data can be seen on www.ideactiv.com

ideactiv has beencreated by Thomas Chenevier, an alumnus of Ecole
Polytechnique. It is used daily by hundreds of cultural organisations, and by national cultural media.

Working for ideactiv is a great opportunity to get experience on "deep search engines", ie search engines that index objects according to their meaning and not just web pages according to their content.


b. Topic. For the reading process to be efficient, ideactiv first generates, for each website, a series of rules that describe where each field (title, date, address, description, price...) of the event should be found in the DOM of the website of the cultural organization.

Here are very simple examples:

-   "the title is the content of the HTML tag <h1>"

-   "the date begins after the tag beginning with <div class="date''
    and ends just beforethe tag <footer>"

-   "the date begins after the first tag <div class="date''> placed
    before the string "Today", and ends just before the tag <footer>"

This requires to beable to detect the presence of cultural events in the organization's website, then to detect its structure, then to detect the nature of the nodes of this structure, and finally to generate these rules.

The internship will focus on this last step (rules generation). It is a process that takes 5 to 20 minutes for a trained adult, depending of the difficulty, and that is not trivial. For example:

i.  Many different rules can be chosen. The solution must favour
    rules whichmake sense from a "human" perspective:

-   rules which are "semantically rich". For example; it is better to
    chose a tag like <divclass="date"> than a purely style tag like
    <spanstyle"font:12px">.

-   rules which are simple and which make sense from a "html"
    perspective. For example, it is better to choose a rule like
    "the whole content of the html component beginning with
    <div class="date">" than "the excerpt than begins with
    <div class="da and that ends up with the second </div".

ii. The rules definition process must also factor in the reading
    abilities of the system. For example, since the system can extract
    a phone number or an address from a larger text, it is better to
    set a "good" rule that will lead to a larger text containing the
    phone number or address, than a "bad" rule leading to the
    extraction of just the data we want.



For the internship, theinput to the rule generation process is (for a series a websites) a tabledescribing the common structure and the content of a sample of events (typically 5 to 12 events). This table will be produced by ideactiv. The challenge is, for each website and each field, to extract "good" rules (see above) based on these samples.

The goal of theinternship is to produce a system able to work in production, working autonomously behind an API, with a code that is clean and commented so that it can be maintained and improved over time after the internship.

The system developed must be as frugal as possible, and must therefore not rely on third party services.


c. Support fromideactiv

ideactiv will providelots of data to train and test the system, and a great knowledge of theseissues.

ideactiv will inparticular provide real-time feedback on the quality of the rules produced, andit will be possible to actually test the usability of these rules by using themas an input to the actual reading of the website where the events come from.

ideactiv will also provide microservices (API endpoints) to determine if a text contains a date, aphone number, a price, an address, etc. That is necessary to address topic b.iiabove.


d. The internship will be mostly remote, with regular online sessions and some in person sessions with ideactiv developer (who is based in Brussels and can come to Paris).

If the internship proves successful, ideactiv might provide hiring opportunities as of summer 2025, in order to deepen the research and development on these topics.

e. Please send your questions, motivation for these topics and applications to thomas@ideactiv.com Applications are expected end of January / early February 2025, for an internship that should start btw February and April, and last for at least 4 months.
